[back](//)
## My First Hackathon Experience
<i>2021-10-07</i>

<p>Recently I worked with a group of my classmates (from my MS Data Science program) on a Hackathon. This was Hackerearth's <i>Life out Here AI/ML Competition</i> put on by Tractor Supply Company. It was an interesting experience, and while we didn't achieve a recognized result, our group submitted on two topics. We worked in sub-groups of two, and my partner and I worked on a Product Recommender. The terms of the competition prohibit our submission from being shared, but I plan to do a personal product recommendation project using some of the same logic employed in this effort. 
</p>
<p>
The gist of what we did was to read in some product data (clicked, carted, and purchased products), read in some weather data, and after some engineering, create a hybrid recommender. I'd worked briefly with recommender systems in a course for prescriptive analytics, yet had not attempted a project on my own. I was a bit intimidated at the difficulty of the project, being new to both hackathons, collaboration in this specific way, and a short deadline. Oh yeah, and my son came several weeks early (wildly unexpected) right in the middle of the competition. So there were 'real life' challenges. Yet I was able to build a hybrid recommender (this was my big contribution) which employed a custom composite id in a cosine similarity matrix (the content recommender), then pushed into a trained SVD model. 
</p>
<p>
What is really cool to me is we were able to get a working model that had an RMSE of ~0.25, which was a lot better than our median 'rating' (using rating loosely here, but many tutorials of recommenders use the IMDB recommender walkthrough) which had a RMSE of ~2.5. Long story short it was a great project to learn by doing, and having a deadline and many constraints was helpful in focusing efforts. 
</p>
<p>
If you are scared of putting yourself out there, trust me, I'm right there with you. I often feel like personal projects are trivial, and I end up researching endlessly instead of doing. Jumping in and learning by failing seems to be efficient. Not saying you have to succeed right away, or even for a while. Just do it! I remind myself of this daily, and it is still something I am actively working on doing. The trying, googling, trying, failing, and starting over seems to be a more efficient means of learning than the wikipedia rabbit hole.
</p>
